#Open Energy Playground

## Table of Contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [What is Docker?](#what-is-docker)
* [What is InfluxDB?](#what-is-influxdb)
* [What is Grafana?](#what-is-grafana)
* [What is MQTT?](#what-is-mqtt)
* [What is Node-RED?](#what-is-node-red)
* [The Dockerfile](#the-dockerfile)
* [Application Configuration Files](#application-configuration-files)
* [External Volumes](#external-volumes)
* [Building the Container](#building-the-container)
* [Running the Container](#running-the-container)
* [Getting the public IP of the docker container](#getting-the-public-ip-of-the-docker-container)
* [Accessing Grafana and InfluxDB](#accessing-grafana-and-influxdb)
* [Reading & Writing Data in InfluxDB](#reading-and-writing-data-in-influxdb)
* [Next Steps](#next-steps)

## Introduction

Open Energy Playground is a research project aiming to make it easier and faster to prototype smart energy services.

Energy data is collected and measured from sites such as offices, homes, construction sites and museums.
This data is then analyzed, stored and processed with tools from the toolbox to result in mockups, tutorials, research material and concept services.
Data will be made available through open source when the project is finished.

## What is Docker?

"Docker containers wrap up a piece of software in a complete filesystem that contains everything it needs to run: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries – anything you can install on a server. This guarantees that it will always run the same, regardless of the environment it is running in."

\- [Docker](https://www.docker.com)

You can download the docker toolbox [here](https://www.docker.com/docker-toolbox), which contains everything you need to run this playground. If you are looking for a more in-depth guide to the installation of docker, take a look [here](https://docs.docker.com/installation).

## What is InfluxDB?

InfluxDB is a time-series database that has been built to work best with metrics, events, and analytics. The solution is written completely in Go and relies on no external dependencies to run. It is being maintained [here](http://influxdb.com).

## What is Grafana?

Grafana is a metrics dashboard which plugs into solutions such as Graphite, InfluxDB, and OpenTSDB. You would use Grafana to visualize the various metrics data you are pushing into InfluxDB.

## What is MQTT?

"MQTT is a machine-to-machine (M2M)/"Internet of Things" connectivity protocol. It was designed as an extremely lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport. It is useful for connections with remote locations where a small code footprint is required and/or network bandwidth is at a premium."

This is the protocall that connects all the nodes together. It passes data from sensors to servers and from servers to clients.

Op-en uses [Mosquitto](http://mosquitto.org/), an open source broker that implements the MQTT protocall.

## What is node-RED?

Node-RED is a tool for wiring together hardware devices, APIs and online services in new and interesting ways.

\- [Node-RED](http://nodered.org/)

## The Dockerfile

You can either create a folder and place your Dockerfile and all configuration files in it or you can clone these files from our repository [here](https://github.com/LeoFidjeland/op-en). We recommend cloning so you capture all required configuration files, plus a pre-built Dockerfile. If you spot an issue or have an improvement, feel free to issue a PR, too!

The contents of the Dockerfile is well commented to explain what is going on. See it [here](https://github.com/LeoFidjeland/op-en/blob/master/Dockerfile)

## Application Configuration Files

We are using the following configuration files:

| Used by | Config File |
| --- | --- |
| Grafana | * No file (default config)* |
| Mosquitto | * No file (default config)* |
| Supervisor | supervisord.conf |
| InfluxDB | config.toml |

If you cloned the repo then you should have these files; however, note, that some of the files must be edited with your desired database name, etc.

### InfluxDB Config

We use the default configuration file for influxdb. This was generated by running the following command on the container:


    docker exec [container id] /opt/influxdb/influxd config

Get the container id by running

    docker ps

So an example would be:


    docker exec 594dc212f28a /opt/influxdb/influxd config

## External Volumes

It is very important to understand the ephemeral nature of containers. This means that data created and stored within the container can disappear if the container restarts or is stopped.

We expose the InfluxDB database path on this line:

    VOLUME ["/opt/influxdb/shared/data"]

This allows us to pass the *-v* switch to *docker* to tell it to map the path in the container to a local path in our host system. When data is written to InfluxDB the it is now not stored within the container itself and is persistent beyond a restart.

## Building the Container

Now that you have put your Dockerfile and configuration files together it is time to build your container. You will need to ensure you're working directory has your Dockerfile and configuration files in it. To build a container from your Dockerfile you would run the following command:

    docker build -t op-en .

The *-t* parameter tags the image with the name *op-en*. The build will execute the Dockerfile. Inspect the output for any errors. If all looks good you should be ready to start the container up.

## Running the Container

Building a container will not automatically start the container. You will need to do that next. Ensure the **/opt/influxdb** path exists on your host file system then run the following command.

    docker run -d -v /opt/influxdb/:/opt/influxdb/shared/data -p 1880:1880 -p 3000:3000 -p 8083:8083 -p 8086:8086 op-en

This tells Docker to:

1. Start the *op-en* image detached from the current process (*-d*).
1. Map the container path of */opt/influxdb/shared/data* to your local */opt/influxdb*;
1. Map your local port 1880, 3000, 8083, and 8086 to the exposed ports in the container.

You can validate the container is running by issuing the command:

    docker ps

## Getting the public IP of the docker container

You should now be able to reach Grafana, Influx web Admin and node-RED by your browser!
First you have to find the public ip of the docker-machine that is running the container.
You can find this in two ways:

1\. When you start up the docker environment, it outputs the ip, like this:

```
                        ##         .
                  ## ## ##        ==
               ## ## ## ## ##    ===
           /"""""""""""""""""\___/ ===
      ~~~ {~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~ /  ===- ~~~
           \______ o           __/
             \    \         __/
              \____\_______/


docker is configured to use the default machine with IP 192.168.99.100
```

2\. If the machine is already running, you can get the ip by running

```
docker-machine ip default
```

## Accessing Grafana and InfluxDB

OK NOW you should now be able to reach Grafana, Influx web Admin and node-RED by your browser! :)

Grafana:

    http://yourpublicip:3000

The default credential is *admin* with the password *admin*. You will want to change this as soon as you can.

InfluxDB management interface:

    http://yourpublicip:8083/

The default credential is *root* with the password *root*. You will want to change this as soon as you can.

node-red management interface:

    http://yourpublicip:1880/

## Reading and Writing Data in InfluxDB

TODO

## Next Steps

At this point, you should have a single container using supervisor to run Grafana, InfluxDB and node-RED.

TODO
